Now that you understand the "Reading the Robot Mind" (RTRM) system, I would like to talk about best practices when analyzing an artificial neural network system (also called a robot) and creating an RTRM system for that robot. These best practices are derived from a variety of real-world RTRM solution creation experiments where bugs and problems had to be fixed - resulting in these valuable "lessons learned." 

I will present these best practices as a "Playbook" of steps that should be taken along the way in order to design an effective working RTRM system. Please reply back if you don't understand or need clarification for any of these steps, but otherwise do not start writing code, nor should you begin performing the steps until explicitly told to do so (to save excessive token usage). Thank you. 

1 - Know the model you are analyzing. Begin with a graphical and/or text description of every layer of the solution, even if the layers are simply activations layers, transformers, dropout, pooling, concatenation, scaling, or any other layer that exists in the model. Each layer must be identified uniquely by name and/or number. Many layers will be developed as "blocks" which within themselves contain multiple layers - all these internal layers must be known and analyzed before creating an RTRM system. Make the description of the model friendly and easy to read, both for the developer and the Subject Matter Expert (SME) who may not be a Python programmer, nor familiar with AI frameworks. If there is any ambiguity regarding this, or if information needed to complete this step is missing or incomplete, get that clarified.

2 - Know the data that the model was trained on. Understand how the training data was structured prior to presenting it to the robot. Understand how an SME normally would observe the data, if it were the SME performing the work of the robot. This will be important when presenting RTRM system results. Understand how to structure new data for presentation to the robot. This will be important when the SME provides new input to probe the inner workings of the robot using the RTRM system. Finally, understand how the final output of the robot is to be presented to an SME during in-the-field operation. If there is any ambiguity in the above, get that clarified.

3 - Know the methods that the RTRM system will be using. Three are presented below, that you should already be largely familiar with, but the developer may also specify additional methods beyond these three; Cosine Similarity (the Brute-Force method), Pseudo-Inverse Reconstruction (also called the Linear Inverse or "Patch" method), and Learned Inverse (Autoencoder). If you don't know what methods should be implemented, or if the methods are unclear or ambiguous, get that clarified.

4 - Know the subset of data that will be needed to create the RTRM system. For example, autoencoders need to be trained - will they use the same training dataset used to originally train the robot, will it be a select subset of that data, or will it come from somewhere else, such as a benchmark or testing dataset. Also, cosine similarity will also need a subset of data so that we can find the most-similar for presentation to the SME. Here too, where will the data come from? If there is any ambiguity in the above, get that clarified.

5 - Know the platform upon which the RTRM solution will be run, specifically with regard to CUDA GPU availability, GPU RAM, overall RAM, and overall disk capacity. This is important because design choices can be made to optimize performance at the expense of GPU RAM (batch size during training, for example) as would normally be done when training AI solutions, but other considerations also arise that are specific to RTRM systems. For example with all three methods, we need to know the activation values for a particular layer within the robot. These activation values may be for a single data point (for linear inverse "Patch" method) or for a large number of data points (for brute force "Cosine Similarity" method, or as input to train using a learned inverse or "autoencoder" method). If this information is unclear or unavailable, get that clarified.

6 - Using the information from the above analysis steps, decide how those activations at intermediate layers will be collected. This decision making will regard how a single set of activations for a single input and at a single layer will be collected (usually done via hooks from the original trained robot, or as frozen sub-networks from the originally trained model, or other method as may be appropriate). This decision will also regard how a large number of activations will be collected (such as to be used as input to train an autoencoder for each layer, or as cosine similarity data points where we will compare many cosine similarities to find the most similar ones). These decisions will impact static and dynamic resource utilization. If we choose to collect a large number of activations for a large number of data points, it may not be possible to hold them all in GPU RAM, or even CPU RAM, or even viable to be stored on disk - we may instead need to calculate activations on the fly (such as through hooks or frozen sub-models) which may use more dynamic resources and slow the process, but may be unavoidable due to the size of the data. If the size of the data, or the best decision for how activations are to be collected are still ambiguous, get that clarified.

7 - Understand how the "patches" are to be created for each layer if that method is being used. Patches can be created as soon as the robot is trained, and need only be generated once (and usually saved to disk). Specifically, for the very first layer of a solution (usually a dense/linear or a CNN layer) the patches are simply the weights (ignoring the bias weight). For every subsequent layer, the patches must be created, even if they are simply identical to patches from the prior layer, or even if we don't want to use the patches from that particular layer, patch creation must always analyze every layer and none can be missed. For layers such as pooling, dropout, batch or other normalization, and activation-only layers, patches do not change. They are the same patches as for the prior layer. For CNN layers, ignore "step" size but do keep track of "padding" size and keep a cumulative sum of padding sizes, as we'll need that for recreation. Otherwise, for CNN layers, the patch (or "cumulative patch" more precisely) for a given kernel is the sum of the prior-layer patches for each of the channels and positions (each scaled by the appropriate weight). Hence, the cumulative patch will have the same number of channels as the very first layer's patches. For CNN cumulative patch calculations, tensor math or nested for loops are both workable, whichever makes the most sense. For dense/linear layers, the cumulative patch for a individual neuron is the sum of the prior layer patches, each multiplied by the connecting weight. For layers that simply concatenate, add, dimensionally scaled, or otherwise mathematically combine prior layer activations; the cumulative patches are similarly concatenated, added, dimensionally scaled, or otherwise mathematically combined. If you have any questions about how any of the layers are to be handled for patch creation, get that clarified.

8 - Understand how inputs are to be recreated using the "patch" method, if that method is being used. For most layers, a given input is processed by the robot and the activations for that layer are collected. Each activation is multiplied by it's respective cumulative patch for that layer and then the scaled patches are spatially positioned and added together to create a best approximation of the original input, using this linear approximation method. As the patches were created, a cumulative padding value (the sum of all the prior occurring padding values up to this point) will be used to trim the edges of the recreation (or this cam be accomplished by using the transposed convolution, which is preferred since it can be executed via CUD on GPU hardware and avoids the nested for loops which can be very slow running on a CPU). If transposed convolution is use, simply set patch=cumulative_patch, but do not set the step-size to anything other than 1 regardless of what step sizes were used in the original convolutions (otherwise you'll end up with a polka-dot image). Finally, once the best-effort reconstruction of the input image is created, it must be scaled. Scaling is usually twofold. First, we scale to the size of the original input image (this allows us to ignore all those different scale sizes inside different layers) and second we usually scale the mean and variance of each color of the resulting recreation to some known mean and variance (usually available as part of the information regarding the training set that was used to train the original robot). If the above described methods are unclear or don't cover every situation you are encountering, it may be that the "patch" method may not be useful for that layer (for example, a transformer layer), but in either case get that clarified.

9 - Understand where tensors reside throughout the entire process no matter what methods are used, especially when using AI frameworks like Torch and others where a "device" (CUDA or otherwise) can be specified. Even after code has been generated, it's worth a walk-through to avoid not only device conflict errors, and also more simple tensor size errors.

10 - Generate code that prioritizes presentation clarity, meaningful ordering, and actionable insights over mathematical elegance. If you are asked to choose which layers should be targeted for input reconstruction, choose layers that are both before and after skip/residual connections (to show the "refreshing" of lost information), layers before and after mutli-modal reasoning (to show before and after sensor/language fusion), layers close to the input and close to and possibly including the output layers before and after softmax or other final activation, layers before and after bottlenecks and pooling (to show loss of information) and any other layers that might be useful for a SME to understand the inner workings of the robot. 

11 - Training autoencoders is time consuming. For this reason, save checkpoints to disk, and in subsequent runs of the script, check to see if these are already there - to save time. If I want them recalculated, I'll delete the checkpoints. You may also decide that other aspects are slow and time consuming, so feel free to use this same methodology as applicable.

12 - Auxiliary visualizations are also useful to the developer, although less useful to the SME who is not a developer. Some of these include the training history graphs for autoencoders, or a visualization of some of the cumulative patches for the selected layers. Include these as well as other visualizations often used by developers - to help debug the RTRM system more than actually used for presentation to the SME.

13 - HUMILITY NOTE: Be humble in your code documentation and in visualization text. There is no concrete AI development modification or threat vector mitigation that presents itself from the RTRM system. The RTRM system is simply letting the SME understand the inner workings of the AI solution, and view the information that is retained in a format they are familiar with. You will accomplish this for selected layers and from a selected perspective (method). RTRM allows meaningful understanding of the AI solution by an SME without the need for them to understand the details of the software programming. Also, I have worked with a variety of vibe-coding LLM's on these RTRM systems, and I often ask them "what do you expect the visualizations to reveal, specifically" and they nearly always get it wrong - because RTRM systems are relatively new and have not been used as part of the training for these LLMs like yourself - so don't make statements about "what you should see" or other claims about what will be revealed, as these are often wrong, in my experience.
